In 2017, temporary accommodation for 1000 refugees
was built on Tempelhof Field – the so-called Tempohomes.
At the start, it was mainly Syrian men who lived in the prefabs. They had fled the war or the risk of conscription into the army. With the rising number of asylum seekers in Germany, getting permission for their families to join them became increasingly difficult.
Mansour A. has been living in the Tempohomes since 2018, waiting for his family.
In Syria, my neighbours and I were constantly visiting each other.
At the weekend, after work, for lunch,
we often went for walks together...
I came into this accommodation
which is like a separate society.
How do I get out of this isolation?
I don’t know.
This is really weighing on me emotionally.
I don’t want to sit here and live on social welfare.
It’s important to me to take part in the labour market.
That’s how I was raised.
I’ve developed a lot of health problems from sitting around so much.
I want to work to feel that I exist.
I was well established in my life in Syria.
I was working as a chef in hotels and restaurants.
But the war turned everything upside down.
Like a bomb that explodes.
It changed everything, changed it incredibly.
Who does the other packet belong to?
It’s ours. But it’s empty.
Why don’t you throw it out?
I can throw them all out.
I meant, you should just throw out the empty packet.
We are 4 people and we get on well.
It’s important to get on so you don't have any problems.
The most important thing is cleanliness.
Cleanliness is sacred to us.
Everybody has to respect the rules.
I was walking down the street with my wife
when a bomb exploded less than 100 metres from us.
My wife was pregnant at the time.
I was afraid something would happen to her and the baby because of the panic.
Then I thought: If I had gone out on the street
just two minutes earlier,
the bomb would have hit us.
I was very shaken by that thought.
That’s why I made the decision to leave.
My wife said: “No, I don’t want to come.”
“I’m worried that something bad will happen
to the foetus on the way.”
“We would regret that until the end of our life.”
Two months after I left, my wife had our first child.
She gave birth to a beautiful daughter and I was very happy.
I haven’t seen my family for three years and six months.
My daughter only knows me through video, WhatsApp and Messenger.
The Germans are nice, good people, but they are careful.
I wish that they could discover us sometime
and that we could be contact with one another – even if it is only superficial.